How many times did you see master Hong since you came back to China in 1991?
And I heard that sometimes you would chat with him all night?
Yes, since 1991 to 1994 I went back to China every year.
At least once and sometimes several times. At that time I was a high school teacher.
Only during the summer and winter I had holidays.
As long as I had a chance I went back.
The last time I visited was in 1994.
I took a group of 65 people from Canada to visit.
We were staying at a Minghua Hotel, a new hotel in Jinan.
It was built by a farmer.
The travel agency thought it would be a good idea to stay there.
It was just opened. We were the first group of people staying there.
It was till after 8:30 pm I took care of everyone in the group and then took a taxi to see Hong.
It was very late at night.
I did not get to his place till 11:30 pm.
After knocking, my master's wife was deaf and mute so she could not hear. It was my master Hong himself that answered the door.
There was an unpleasant look on his face but as soon as he saw it was me, he said,
"Since you came from so far away, what can I say!"
Come in!
I stayed till in the morning when my master's wife made noodles for us.
I had to leave for Tai An with my group at 8:00 am so
I had to leave early.
That was a sleepless night.
We talked all night.
What did you talk about?
The most important impression was that he was telling me what he could not do.
Since then I knew how to practice.
What was he lacking?
It is that doing practice, we follow a set of theoretical rules.
But in doing so, we cannot do anything.
Therefore, you make a compromise.
But when you make a compromise, your movements are wrong.
When this happens, we are not aware of the mistake.
If he does not tell you, you will never know that you are wrong.
So when making moves, he would explain to me how to do it. I would say,
But we move like this, it is not the same.
Of course that is what you are doing. It is the wrong way!
I then said, "I think you did it like that too!"
He replied,
"Do you follow me or the principles?"
I said that I believed that everything he did was the same as the principles.
He replied that he was like me, he was also human.
All humans will have the same problems. We cannot do it right. Then we compromise and therefore, make mistakes.
After that, my own form started to look slightly different from everybody's form and also slightly different from his form.
This is the point.
It is also to say that master Hong himself,
eh,
also made mistakes.
It depends on your own enlightenment.
It is not enlightenment. It was what he said.
I don't think he made any mistakes. I think he was using that method to demonstrate a point in learning.
A learning method, a principle.
No matter whether it is something said by a fellow disciple,
your own thinking, or something the master said,
The guideline must be the taiji principles.
It was not a case of evaluating him.
It is a case that whenever we ran into difficulties or conflicts we must reply on principles, not anything else.
We must apply the principles to the entire form.
And see that many adjustment must be made.